Populate README (#109)
bcgsc/physlr: README.md

# Physlr: Construct a Physical Map from Linked Reads

> Physlr is a *de novo* physical map generater using linked reads (10X or stLFR). This physical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Physlr generates *de novo* physical maps using linked reads (10X or stLFR). This physical
```

> Physlr is a *de novo* physical map generater using linked reads (10X or stLFR). This physical

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Physlr constructs a *de novo* physical map using linked reads from 10x Genomics or stLFR. This physical
```

map can then be used to scaffold an existing assembly to yield chromosomal level contiguity.

## Build Status

> [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/bcgsc/btl/_apis/build/status/bcgsc.physlr?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/bcgsc/btl/_build/latest?definitionId=1&branchName=master)

Reviewer 2: I'm not personally a fan of build status badges in a README, just my 2c.

Author: I do not have a strong opinion either way but I just see a lot of repo with it so I added it to the README. Why are you not a fan of the badge?

Reviewer 2: A build status badge is mean to be developer-facing not user-facing, and `README.md` is a user-facing document.

Author: Hmm, I see. I will remove it then, but wouldn't the badge also give the user a source of confidence if he were to clone from master?

# Dependencies

* [ntCard](https://github.com/bcgsc/ntCard)
* [ntHits](https://github.com/bcgsc/ntHits)

> * gxx 5 or newer with openmp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* GCC 5 or newer with openmp
```

* Python 3.5 or newer and the following packages
    * community
    * networkx
    * numpy
    * scipy
    * sklearn
    * tqdm

> Additionally, we recommend using pypy3 over regular python3 for improved time performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, we recommend using pypy3 over regular python3 for speed.
```

## Optional dependencies

- [pigz](https://zlib.net/pigz/) for parallel gzip
- [zsh](https://sourceforge.net/projects/zsh/) for reporting time and memory usage

Compiling Physlr from source
===========================

> 	cd ~/physlr/src

Author: The intention behind the tildes, was just an example location. I suppose I could have done the `/path_to_install/` that other examples use

> 	cd ~/physlr/src

Reviewer: Hmm yeah I guess I thought that could be confusing for less experienced users, but that's just my two cents.

	make

# Running Physlr

Generating Physlr Physical Map with stLFR reads
===========================

	cd ~/experiment
	ln -s ~/physlr/data/Makefile
    ls

>     Makefile    lr.fq.gz #stLFR   ref.fa

Author: I feel that is a bit excessive. Maybe just rename the files to `linkedreads.fq.gz` and `reference.fa` and so on

>     Makefile    lr.fq.gz #stLFR   ref.fa

Reviewer: Hmm I disagree for a README -- I think better to spell things out really clearly and be more verbose. In my opinion it's as important or more important than the Makefile help page. 
(See Tigmint, ARCS github READMEs)

>     Makefile    lr.fq.gz #stLFR   ref.fa

Author: I updated the usage example with a verbose explanation.

>     make physical-map lr=lr ref=ref minimizer_overlap=stLFR

Reviewer 2: Use triple backticks to escape code blocks rather than indenting.

Scaffolding a draft assembly with Physlr Physical Map
===========================

	cd ~/experiment
	ln -s ~/physlr/data/Makefile
    ls
    Makefile    lr.fq.gz #10X   ref.fa    draft.fa

>     make scaffolds lr=lr ref=ref draft=draft minimizer_overlap=10X

Reviewer 2: Use triple backticks to escape code blocks rather than indenting.

# Output files

* `lr.physlr.physical-map.path`: Paths of barcodes (backbones) describing chromosomal length sequences.
* `lr.physlr.physical-map.ref.n10.paf.gz.*.pdf`: Various visualizations of backbones against the reference.

> * `draft.physlr.fa`: Physlr scaffolded assembly with physical-map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `draft.physlr.fa`: Physlr scaffolded assembly using the physical map.
```

> * `draft.physlr.quast.tsv`: Quast metrics using the Physlr scaffolded assembly as query against the reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `draft.physlr.quast.tsv`: Quast metrics comparing the Physlr scaffolded assembly against the reference.
```

Testing Compiled Physlr executables

> ===========================

Reviewer 2: Use `#` rather than `===`.

	cd ~/physlr/src

>     make check

Reviewer 2: Use triple backticks to escape code blocks rather than indenting.

# Acknowledgements

This projects uses:
* [btl_bloomfilter](https://github.com/bcgsc/btl_bloomfilter) BTL C/C++ Common bloom filters for bioinformatics projects implemented by Justin Chu

> * [klib](https://github.com/attractivechaos/klib) A standalone and lightweight C library implemented by Attractive Chaos

Reviewer 2: Is this link more appropriate? https://github.com/lh3/readfq/blob/master/readfq.py

Author: My apologies, I missed that acknowledgement. The klib is required as we use it here for indexlr https://github.com/bcgsc/physlr/blob/master/src/vendor/kseq.h.

Reviewer 2: You can instead point to `kseq.h` in the `readfq` repository. Both libraries are by the same author. https://github.com/lh3/readfq/blob/master/kseq.h

Author: Oh, Attractive Chaos is Heng Li. Now, I know.

# Physlr: Construct a Physical Map from Linked Reads

Physlr constructs a *de novo* physical map using linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR. This physical map can then be used to scaffold an existing assembly to yield chromosomal level contiguity.

# Dependencies

* [ntCard](https://github.com/bcgsc/ntCard)
* [ntHits](https://github.com/bcgsc/ntHits)

> * GCC 5 or newer with openmp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* GCC 5 or newer with OpenMP
```

* Python 3.5 or newer and the following packages
    * [community](https://python-louvain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html)
    * [networkx](https://networkx.github.io/)
    * [numpy](https://numpy.org/)
    * [scipy](https://www.scipy.org/)
    * [sklearn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/)
    * [tqdm](https://tqdm.github.io/)

Additionally, we recommend using pypy3 over regular python3 for speed.

## Optional dependencies

- [pigz](https://zlib.net/pigz/) for parallel gzip
- [zsh](https://sourceforge.net/projects/zsh/) for reporting time and memory usage

# Compiling Physlr from source

```
pip3 install --user git+https://github.com/bcgsc/physlr
cd src

> make

Reviewer 2: I believe it's possible to modify `setup.py` to run `cd src && make install`, though I've not done it myself. In the mean time, please add
```
git clone https://github.com/bcgsc/physlr
cd physlr/src && make install
```
Please add an `install` rule to the `Makefile`. It should install to the location `$(DESTDIR)$(PREFIX)`. The default value of `DESTDIR` is the empty string. The default value of `PREFIX` is `$(HOME)/.local` (or possibly `/usr/local` but I prefer `$(HOME)/.local`. Executables are installed into `$(DESTDIR)$(PREFIX)/bin`.
Within the context of `setup.py`, executables should be installed into the directory that `setup.py` tells you to install them into.

Author: see #118 for `install` rule. I will look into `setup.py` at another time.

```

# Running Physlr

## Generating Physlr Physical Map with stLFR reads

To construct a physical map, you need linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR. In addition, to visualize the correctness and contiguity of the physical map, you need a reference genome.

> In this example, the linked reads and reference genome are called `linkedReads.fq.gz` and `reference.fa`, respectively. The linked reads are from stLFR so we specify `minimizer_overlap=stLFR` to use the default value for stLFR reads.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest calling this argument `chemistry=chromium` or `chemistry=stlfr` (no capitals).

Author: I will change this in another PR as this requires makefile modifications

> In this example, the linked reads and reference genome are called `linkedReads.fq.gz` and `reference.fa`, respectively. The linked reads are from stLFR so we specify `minimizer_overlap=stLFR` to use the default value for stLFR reads.

Reviewer 2: Rename `linkedReads.fq.gz` to `linkedreads.fq.gz`. Capital letters in filenames aren't typical and can cause confusion.

```
cd experiment
ls

> linkedReads.fq.gz #stLFR   reference.fa

Reviewer 2: This line looks weird. I'd remove lines 44 and 45.

bin/physlr-make physical-map lr=linkedReads ref=ref minimizer_overlap=stLFR
```

## Scaffolding a draft assembly with Physlr Physical Map

To scaffold a draft assembly, you need linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR, and an existing assembly. In addition, to calculate Quast summary metrics for the Physlr scaffolded assembly, you need a reference genome.
In this example, the linked reads, draft assembly, and reference genome are called `linkedReads.fq.gz`, `draft.fa`, `reference.fa`, respectively. The linked reads are from 10X Genomics so we specify `minimizer_overlap=10X` to use the default value for 10X Genomics reads.

```
cd experiment
ls

> linkedReads.fq.gz #10X   reference.fa    draft.fa

Reviewer 2: Ditto.

bin/physlr-make scaffolds lr=linkedReads ref=reference draft=draft minimizer_overlap=10X
```

See the help page for further information.

> ```bin/physlr-make help```

Reviewer 2: Why triple back ticks on one line? That's unusual. Usually it's triple back ticks for a block or single back ticks for inline.

Author: Didn't know there was a distinction. Will change to single back ticks

## Build Status
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/bcgsc/btl/_apis/build/status/bcgsc.physlr?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/bcgsc/btl/_build/latest?definitionId=1&branchName=master)

# Dependencies

* [ntCard](https://github.com/bcgsc/ntCard)
* [ntHits](https://github.com/bcgsc/ntHits)
* GCC 5 or newer with openmp
* Python 3.5 or newer and the following packages
    * [community](https://python-louvain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html)
    * [networkx](https://networkx.github.io/)
    * [numpy](https://numpy.org/)
    * [scipy](https://www.scipy.org/)
    * [sklearn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/)
    * [tqdm](https://tqdm.github.io/)

Additionally, we recommend using pypy3 over regular python3 for speed.

## Optional dependencies

- [pigz](https://zlib.net/pigz/) for parallel gzip
- [zsh](https://sourceforge.net/projects/zsh/) for reporting time and memory usage

# Compiling Physlr from source

```
cd src
make
```

# Running Physlr

## Generating Physlr Physical Map with stLFR reads

> To construct a physical map, you would need linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR. To visualize the correctness and contiguity of the physical map, you wouls also need a reference genome. In this example, the linked reads and reference genome are called `linkedReads.fq.gz` and `reference.fa`, respectively. The linked reads are from stLFR so we specify `minimizer_overlap=stLFR` to use the default value for stLFR reads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To construct a physical map, you need linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR. In addition, to visualize the correctness and contiguity of the physical map, you need a reference genome. 
In this example, the linked reads and reference genome are named `linkedReads.fq.gz` and `reference.fa`, respectively. The linked reads are from stLFR so we specify `minimizer_overlap=stLFR` to use the default parameter setting for stLFR reads.
```

```
cd experiment
ln -s data/Makefile
ls
Makefile    linkedReads.fq.gz #stLFR   reference.fa
make physical-map lr=linkedReads ref=ref minimizer_overlap=stLFR

> ```

Reviewer: This soft-link will be unnecessary once we change the name of the Makefile. Will we make that adjustment in a future PR?

Author: Yeah the adjustment will be with the physlr-make PR

Author: may as well put it in this one too

## Scaffolding a draft assembly with Physlr Physical Map

> To scaffold a draft assembly, you would need linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR, and an existing assembly. To obtain Quast metrics for the Physlr scaffolded assembly, you wouls also need a reference genome. In this example, the linked reads, draft assembly, and reference genome are called `linkedReads.fq.gz`, `draft.fa`, `reference.fa`, respectively. The linked reads are from 10X so we specify `minimizer_overlap=10X` to use the default value for 10X reads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To scaffold a draft assembly, you need linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR, and an existing assembly. In addition, to calculate Quast summary metrics for the Physlr scaffolded assembly, you also need a reference genome. 
In this example, the linked reads, draft assembly, and reference genome are called `linkedReads.fq.gz`, `draft.fa`, `reference.fa`, respectively. The linked reads are from 10X Genomics so we specify `minimizer_overlap=10X` to use the default value for 10X reads.
```

```
cd experiment
ln -s data/Makefile
ls
Makefile    linkedReads.fq.gz #10X   reference.fa    draft.fa
make scaffolds lr=linkedReads ref=reference draft=draft minimizer_overlap=10X
```

> See the help page for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the help page for further information.
```bin/physlr-make help```
```
Or similar.

# Output files

> * `lr.physlr.physical-map.path`: Paths of barcodes (backbones) describing chromosomal length sequences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `lr.physlr.physical-map.path`: Paths of barcodes (backbones).
```
I'm hesitant to be so presumptuous when just describing the output files...

# Physlr: Construct a Physical Map from Linked Reads

Physlr constructs a *de novo* physical map using linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR. This physical map can then be used to scaffold an existing assembly to yield chromosomal level contiguity.

## Build Status
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/bcgsc/btl/_apis/build/status/bcgsc.physlr?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/bcgsc/btl/_build/latest?definitionId=1&branchName=master)

# Dependencies

* [ntCard](https://github.com/bcgsc/ntCard)
* [ntHits](https://github.com/bcgsc/ntHits)
* GCC 5 or newer with openmp
* Python 3.5 or newer and the following packages
    * [community](https://python-louvain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html)
    * [networkx](https://networkx.github.io/)
    * [numpy](https://numpy.org/)
    * [scipy](https://www.scipy.org/)
    * [sklearn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/)
    * [tqdm](https://tqdm.github.io/)

Additionally, we recommend using pypy3 over regular python3 for speed.

## Optional dependencies

- [pigz](https://zlib.net/pigz/) for parallel gzip
- [zsh](https://sourceforge.net/projects/zsh/) for reporting time and memory usage

# Compiling Physlr from source

```
cd src
make

> ```

Reviewer 2: Let's add instructions to install Physlr. It should ideally be a single command. Makes sense to use `pip3` for this purpose I think. Autotools would be the alternative.
```sh
pip3 install --user git+https://github.com/bcgsc/physlr
```

To scaffold a draft assembly, you need linked reads from 10X Genomics or stLFR, and an existing assembly. In addition, to calculate Quast summary metrics for the Physlr scaffolded assembly, you need a reference genome.
In this example, the linked reads, draft assembly, and reference genome are called `linkedReads.fq.gz`, `draft.fa`, `reference.fa`, respectively. The linked reads are from 10X Genomics so we specify `minimizer_overlap=10X` to use the default value for 10X Genomics reads.

```
cd experiment
ls
linkedReads.fq.gz #10X   reference.fa    draft.fa
bin/physlr-make scaffolds lr=linkedReads ref=reference draft=draft minimizer_overlap=10X
```

See the help page for further information.
```bin/physlr-make help```

# Output files

* `lr.physlr.physical-map.path`: Paths of barcodes (backbones).
* `lr.physlr.physical-map.ref.n10.paf.gz.*.pdf`: Various graphs showing the contiguity and correctness of the backbones with respect to the reference.
* `draft.physlr.fa`: Physlr scaffolded assembly using the physical map.
* `draft.physlr.quast.tsv`: Quast metrics comparing the Physlr scaffolded assembly against the reference.

# Testing Compiled Physlr executables

```
cd src
make check

> ```

Reviewer 2: You can delete this section `Testing Compiled Physlr executables`.
